 cut(1)								      cut(1)

 NAME
      cut - cut out (extract) selected fields of each line of a file

 SYNOPSIS
      cut -c list [file ...]

      cut -b list [-n] [file ...]

      cut -f list [-d char] [-s] [file ...]

 DESCRIPTION
      cut cuts out (extracts) columns from a table or fields from each line
      in a file; in data base parlance, it implements the projection of a
      relation.	 Fields as specified by list can be fixed length (defined in
      terms of character or byte position in a line when using the -c or -b
      option), or the length can vary from line to line and be marked with a
      field delimiter character such as the tab character (when using the -f
      option).	cut can be used as a filter; if no files are given, the
      standard input is used.

      When processing single-byte character sets, the -c and -b options are
      equivalent and produce identical results.	 When processing multi-byte
      character sets, when the -b and -n options are used together, their
      combined behavior is very similar, but not identical to the -c option.

    Options
      Options are interpreted as follows:

	   list		  A comma-separated list of integer byte (-b
			  option), character (-c option), or field (-f
			  option) numbers, in increasing order, with
			  optional - to indicate ranges.  For example:

			       1,4,7	 Positions 1, 4, and 7.
			       1-3,8	 Positions 1 through 3 and 8.
			       -5,10	 Positions 1 through 5 and 10.
			       3-	 Position 3 through last position.

	   -b list	  Cut based on a list of bytes.	 Each selected byte
			  is output unless the -n option is also specified.

	   -c list	  Cut based on character positions specified by list
			  (-c 1-72 extracts the first 72 characters of each
			  line).

	   -f list	  Where list is a list of fields assumed to be
			  separated in the file by a delimiter character
			  (see -d); for example, -f 1,7 copies the first and
			  seventh field only.  Lines with no field
			  delimiters will be passed through intact (useful
			  for table subheadings), unless -s is specified.

	   -d char	  The character following -d is the field delimiter
			  (-f option only).  Default is tab.  Space or other
			  characters with special meaning to the shell must
			  be quoted.  Adjacent field delimiters delimit null
			  fields. char may be an international code set character.

	   -n		  Do not split characters.  If the high end of a
			  range within a list is not the last byte of a
			  character, that character is not included in the
			  output.  However, if the low end of a range within
			  a list is not the first byte of a character, the
			  entire character is included in the output."

	   -s		  Suppresses lines with no delimiter characters when
			  using -f option.  Unless -s is specified, lines
			  with no delimiters appear in the output without
			  alteration.

    Hints
      Use grep to extract text from a file based on text pattern recognition
      (using regular expressions).  Use paste to merge files line-by-line in
      columnar format.	To rearrange columns in a table in a different
      sequence, use cut and paste.  See grep(1) and paste(1) for more
      information.

 EXTERNAL INFLUENCES
    Environment Variables
      LC_CTYPE determines the interpretation of text as single and/or
      multi-byte characters.

      If LC_CTYPE is not specified in the environment or is set to the empty
      string, the value of LANG is used as a default for each unspecified or
      empty variable.  If LANG is not specified or is set to the empty
      string, a default of "C" (see lang(5)) is used instead of LANG.  If
      any internationalization variable contains an invalid setting, cut
      behaves as if all internationalization variables are set to "C".	See
      environ(5).

    International Code Set Support
      cut supports both single- and multi-byte character code sets.
      International code set characters may be specified in the char given
      to the -d option. cut recognizes the international code set characters
      according to the locale specified in the LC_CTYPE environment
      variable.

 EXAMPLES
      Password file mapping of user ID to user names:

	   cut -d : -f 1,5 /etc/passwd

      Set environment variable name to current login name:

	   name=`who am i | cut -f 1 -d " "`

      Convert file source containing lines of arbitrary length into two
      files where file1 contains the first 500 bytes (unless the 500th byte
      is within a multi-byte character), and file2 contains the remainder of
      each line:

	   cut -b 1-500 -n source > file1
	   cut -b 500- -n source > file2




 DIAGNOSTICS
      line too long  Line length must not exceed LINE_MAX characters or
		     fields, including the new-line character (see
		     limits(5).

      bad list for b/c/f option
		     Missing -b, -c, or -f option or incorrectly specified
		     list.  No error occurs if a line has fewer fields than
		     the list calls for.

      no fields	     list is empty.

 WARNINGS
      cut does not expand tabs.	 Pipe text through expand(1) if tab
      expansion is required.

      Backspace characters are treated the same as any other character.	 To
      eliminate backspace characters before processing by cut, use the fold
      or col command (see fold(1) and col(1)).

 AUTHOR
      cut was developed by OSF and HP.

 SEE ALSO
      grep(1), paste(1).

 STANDARDS CONFORMANCE
      cut: SVID2, SVID3, XPG2, XPG3, XPG4, POSIX.2

 Hewlett-Packard Company	    - 3 -  HP-UX Release 11.00: October 1997



